index.md, before:

## Biography

Yusuke Mori (森 友亮 in Japanese) is a Ph.D. student at [Harada Laboratory (Machine Intelligence Laboratory)](https://www.mi.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp), The University of Tokyo, Japan.

He received the M.S. degree in Information Science and Technology (the department of Creative Informatics) from the University of Tokyo, Japan, in 2014. On the basis of his experience working in neuroscience and brain simulation research in the previously belonged laboratory (Kanzaki-Takahashi Laboratory, belonged from 2011-04 to 2014-03), now he has a strong interest in storytelling, machine learning, and natural language processing, which he believes to have a tight relationship with human creativity.

### Keywords

Natural Language Processing, Natural Language Generation, Machine Learning, Storytelling, Emotions

## Education

- Currently : The University of Tokyo — Ph.D. student, Machine Intelligence Lab.

  - Working on machine learning and natural language processing.
  - Advisor: Tatsuya Harada (Professor)

- The University of Tokyo — Master of Information Science and Technology, 2014

  - Master's Thesis: 「昆虫全脳シミュレーションに向けたシナプス分布推定及び実環境との接続手法の提案」（in Japanese）
  - Advisor: Ryohei Kanzaki (Professor)

- The University of Tokyo — Bachelor of Engineering, 2012
  - Graduation Thesis:「細胞形態を考慮した昆虫一次昆嗅覚中枢シミュレーション」（in Japanese）
  - Advisor: Ryohei Kanzaki (Professor)

## Work Experiences

- 2020-01 ~ 2020-01: Research Intern - Gunosy Tech Lab R&D team, Gunosy Inc., Tokyo, Japan
- 2017-01 ~ 2018-03: Dwango Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Dwango, Tokyo, Japan
  - 2017-04 ~ 2018-03: Part-time worker
  - 2017-01 ~ 2017-03: Contractor
- 2012-09 ~ 2012-09: 1-week Intern - Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Tokyo, Japan
- 2012-08 ~ 2012-09: Intern - Nikkei Business Publications, Inc., Tokyo, Japan

## Contact

- E-mail: mori [at] mi.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp
- [Twitter: @shade_tree2112](https://twitter.com/shade_tree2112)
- [GitHub: @forest1988](https://github.com/forest1988)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yusuke-mori-373363186)
- [ORCiD](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2527-7973)

## Papers

[Google Scholar Citations](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=4-0qfHsAAAAJ&hl=en)

### International Journal

1. Hiroaki Yamane, <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Tatsuya Harada, "Humor meets morality: Joke generation based on moral judgement,"
   Information Processing & Management,
   Volume 58, Issue 3,
   2021,
   102520,
   ISSN 0306-4573,
   [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102520](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102520). (open access)

2. <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Hiroaki Yamane, Yoshitaka Ushiku, Tatsuya Harada,
   "How narratives move your mind: A corpus of shared-character stories for connecting emotional flow and interestingness,"
   Information Processing & Management,
   Volume 56, Issue 5,
   2019,
   Pages 1865-1879,
   ISSN 0306-4573,
   [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2019.03.006](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2019.03.006).

### International Conference/Workshop

1. <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mukuta, Tatsuya Harada,
   "The Nectar of Missing Position Prediction for Story Completion,"
   Text2Story 2021 (ECIR 2021, Workshop), 2021.
2. <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mukuta, Tatsuya Harada,
   "Finding and Generating a Missing Part for Story Completion,"
   4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature (LaTeCH-CLfL) (COLING 2020, Workshop), 2020. [[PDF (ACL Anthology)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.latechclfl-1.19.pdf) [[Code (GitHub)](https://github.com/mil-tokyo/missing-position-prediction)] [[Presentation Slide (Workshop website)](https://sighum.files.wordpress.com/2020/12/47-finding-and-generating-a-missing-part-for-story-completion.pdf)]
3. <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mukuta, Tatsuya Harada,
   "Toward a Better Story End: Collecting Human Evaluation with Reasons,"
   In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Natural Language Generation (INLG 2019), 2019. [[PDF (ACL Anthology)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-8646.pdf)]

### 国内の研究会 (Domestic Workshop)

<b>査読なし (unrefereed), in Japanese</b>

1. <u>森 友亮</u>†, 上原康平†, 原田達也, († equal contribution) "視覚・言語融合 Transformer モデルによる画像からの物語文生成," CAI+CAI first workshop (言語処理学会第27回年次大会 ワークショップ), 福岡（オンライン）, 2021年3月.  [[PDF](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xC_jGU7ZziIwSSLFe1K-qTbNRwyHeIpD/view?usp=sharing)]
2. 後藤 昂彦, 加沢 知毅, 宮本 大輔, ハウプト ステファン 周一, <u>森 友亮</u>, 神崎 亮平, “大規模 RCGA による単一ニューロンに対する H-H 型モデルパラメータの推定 〜 カイコガ触角葉ニューロンを対象として 〜,” 信学技報, vol. 113, no. 382, NC2013-68, pp. 7-12, 福岡, 2014 年 1 月.
3. <u>森 友亮</u>, 加沢 知毅, 宮本 大輔, 神崎 亮平, “昆虫全脳シミューレーションに向けたスーパーコンピュータとのリアルタイム通信の検討,” 信学技報, vol. 113, no. 223, MBE2013-42, NC2013-28, pp. 35-40, 新潟, 2013 年 9 月.

## Posters

### 国内の学会・シンポジウム (Domestic Conference, Symposium)

<b>査読なし (unrefereed), poster</b>

1. Tomoki Kazawa, <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Daisuke Miyamoto, Shigehiro Namiki, Hidetoshi Ikeno, Stephan Shuichi Haupt, Ikuko Nishikawa, Ryohei Kanzaki, “Constructing a multi-compartment parallelized simulation of a premotor area of the silkmoth brain,” 日本比較生理生化学会第 35 回大会, 兵庫, 2013 年 7 月.
2. Daisuke Miyamoto, Tomoki Kazawa, Stephan Shuichi Haupt, Shigehiro Namiki, Yohei Sato, Hidehito Sato, <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Ryota Kobayashi, Hidetoshi Ikeno, Ikuko Nishikawa, Ryohei Kanzaki, “IOSSIM: the framework for constructing multi-compartment neuron models and large scale simulations,” 日本比較生理生化学会第 34 回大会, 神奈川, 2012 年 7 月.

<b>査読なし (unrefereed), poster, in Japanese</b>

1. 加沢 知毅, 宮本 大輔, <u>森 友亮</u>, ハウプト ステファン 周一, 並木 重宏, 神崎 亮平, 池野 英利, 五十嵐 吉輝, 山岸 嘉彦, 小野島 隆之, 小杉 展弘, 西川 郁子, “IOSSIM（昆虫全脳シミュレータ）の開発と応用,” 次世代生命体統合シミュレーションソフトウェアの研究開発（ライフ）公開シンポジウム, 東京, 2013 年 3 月.

## Other Activities

### Open Source Software commitment

#### [spacy-course](https://github.com/ines/spacy-course) Japanese translation project

- Participated in a project to enable users to use Japanese models in Japanese translated course.

#### Hugging Face Datasets Sprint 2020

- The detail of the sprint is shown in [HF newsletter](https://huggingface.curated.co/issues/5).
- As one of the 275+ participants, I joined the open-source community effort and create PRs of adding datasets.
- The datasets added in the sprint is released in Hugging Face Datasets v1.2.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Release alert: the 🤗datasets library v1.2 is available now!<br><br>With:<br>- 611 datasets you can download in one line of python<br>- 467 languages covered, 99 with at least 10 datasets<br>- efficient pre-processing to free you from memory constraints<br><br>Try it out at:<a href="https://t.co/A7rmjGSELy">https://t.co/A7rmjGSELy</a> <a href="https://t.co/c8TETfWfHr">pic.twitter.com/c8TETfWfHr</a></p>&mdash; Hugging Face (@huggingface) <a href="https://twitter.com/huggingface/status/1346398458303934464?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 5, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

### Presentation at Study Group

#### [第 41 回　コンピュータビジョン勉強会＠関東](https://kantocv.connpass.com/event/62340/)

<iframe src="//www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/key/u3AkvymrrDUl7E" width="595" height="485" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen> </iframe> <div style="margin-bottom:5px"> <strong> <a href="//www.slideshare.net/moriemonmist/2017081941cvhierarchicalapproachimageparagraphs" title="20170819第41回CV勉強会＠関東_HierarchicalApproach_ImageParagraphs" target="_blank">20170819第41回CV勉強会＠関東_HierarchicalApproach_ImageParagraphs</a> </strong> from <strong><a href="https://www.slideshare.net/moriemonmist" target="_blank">Yusuke Mori</a></strong> </div>

I introduced "A Hierarchical Approach for Generating Descriptive Image Paragraphs" [Krause et al., CVPR 2017] at the 41st kantocv.

## Qualifications

### Information Science and Technology

- Passed Applied Information Technology Engineer Examination (AP) (2015-06)
- Passed Fundamental Information Technology Engineer Examination (FE) (2012-11)

### Language

- TOEIC L&R 915 (2018-09)

### Others

- 3rd grade Certified Specialist of Intellectual Property Management（administration） (2015-04)

Commit message:

Update video info of Text2Story 2021

index.md, after:

## Biography

Yusuke Mori (森 友亮 in Japanese) is a Ph.D. student at [Harada Laboratory (Machine Intelligence Laboratory)](https://www.mi.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp), The University of Tokyo, Japan.

He received the M.S. degree in Information Science and Technology (the department of Creative Informatics) from the University of Tokyo, Japan, in 2014. On the basis of his experience working in neuroscience and brain simulation research in the previously belonged laboratory (Kanzaki-Takahashi Laboratory, belonged from 2011-04 to 2014-03), now he has a strong interest in storytelling, machine learning, and natural language processing, which he believes to have a tight relationship with human creativity.

### Keywords

Natural Language Processing, Natural Language Generation, Machine Learning, Storytelling, Emotions

## Education

- Currently : The University of Tokyo — Ph.D. student, Machine Intelligence Lab.

  - Working on machine learning and natural language processing.
  - Advisor: Tatsuya Harada (Professor)

- The University of Tokyo — Master of Information Science and Technology, 2014

  - Master's Thesis: 「昆虫全脳シミュレーションに向けたシナプス分布推定及び実環境との接続手法の提案」（in Japanese）
  - Advisor: Ryohei Kanzaki (Professor)

- The University of Tokyo — Bachelor of Engineering, 2012
  - Graduation Thesis:「細胞形態を考慮した昆虫一次昆嗅覚中枢シミュレーション」（in Japanese）
  - Advisor: Ryohei Kanzaki (Professor)

## Work Experiences

- 2020-01 ~ 2020-01: Research Intern - Gunosy Tech Lab R&D team, Gunosy Inc., Tokyo, Japan
- 2017-01 ~ 2018-03: Dwango Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, Dwango, Tokyo, Japan
  - 2017-04 ~ 2018-03: Part-time worker
  - 2017-01 ~ 2017-03: Contractor
- 2012-09 ~ 2012-09: 1-week Intern - Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry, Tokyo, Japan
- 2012-08 ~ 2012-09: Intern - Nikkei Business Publications, Inc., Tokyo, Japan

## Contact

- E-mail: mori [at] mi.t.u-tokyo.ac.jp
- [Twitter: @shade_tree2112](https://twitter.com/shade_tree2112)
- [GitHub: @forest1988](https://github.com/forest1988)
- [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/yusuke-mori-373363186)
- [ORCiD](https://orcid.org/0000-0003-2527-7973)

## Papers

[Google Scholar Citations](https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=4-0qfHsAAAAJ&hl=en)

### International Journal

1. Hiroaki Yamane, <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Tatsuya Harada, "Humor meets morality: Joke generation based on moral judgement,"
   Information Processing & Management,
   Volume 58, Issue 3,
   2021,
   102520,
   ISSN 0306-4573,
   [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102520](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2021.102520). (open access)

2. <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Hiroaki Yamane, Yoshitaka Ushiku, Tatsuya Harada,
   "How narratives move your mind: A corpus of shared-character stories for connecting emotional flow and interestingness,"
   Information Processing & Management,
   Volume 56, Issue 5,
   2019,
   Pages 1865-1879,
   ISSN 0306-4573,
   [https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2019.03.006](https://doi.org/10.1016/j.ipm.2019.03.006).

### International Conference/Workshop

1. <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mukuta, Tatsuya Harada,
   "The Nectar of Missing Position Prediction for Story Completion,"
   Text2Story 2021 (ECIR 2021, Workshop), 2021. [[Video (in the channel of the workshop on YouTube)](https://youtu.be/IfnBtOsXq6M)]
2. <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mukuta, Tatsuya Harada,
   "Finding and Generating a Missing Part for Story Completion,"
   4th Joint SIGHUM Workshop on Computational Linguistics for Cultural Heritage, Social Sciences, Humanities and Literature (LaTeCH-CLfL) (COLING 2020, Workshop), 2020. [[PDF (ACL Anthology)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/2020.latechclfl-1.19.pdf) [[Code (GitHub)](https://github.com/mil-tokyo/missing-position-prediction)] [[Presentation Slide (Workshop website)](https://sighum.files.wordpress.com/2020/12/47-finding-and-generating-a-missing-part-for-story-completion.pdf)]
3. <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Hiroaki Yamane, Yusuke Mukuta, Tatsuya Harada,
   "Toward a Better Story End: Collecting Human Evaluation with Reasons,"
   In Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Natural Language Generation (INLG 2019), 2019. [[PDF (ACL Anthology)](https://www.aclweb.org/anthology/W19-8646.pdf)]

### 国内の研究会 (Domestic Workshop)

<b>査読なし (unrefereed), in Japanese</b>

1. <u>森 友亮</u>†, 上原康平†, 原田達也, († equal contribution) "視覚・言語融合 Transformer モデルによる画像からの物語文生成," CAI+CAI first workshop (言語処理学会第27回年次大会 ワークショップ), 福岡（オンライン）, 2021年3月.  [[PDF](https://drive.google.com/file/d/1xC_jGU7ZziIwSSLFe1K-qTbNRwyHeIpD/view?usp=sharing)]
2. 後藤 昂彦, 加沢 知毅, 宮本 大輔, ハウプト ステファン 周一, <u>森 友亮</u>, 神崎 亮平, “大規模 RCGA による単一ニューロンに対する H-H 型モデルパラメータの推定 〜 カイコガ触角葉ニューロンを対象として 〜,” 信学技報, vol. 113, no. 382, NC2013-68, pp. 7-12, 福岡, 2014 年 1 月.
3. <u>森 友亮</u>, 加沢 知毅, 宮本 大輔, 神崎 亮平, “昆虫全脳シミューレーションに向けたスーパーコンピュータとのリアルタイム通信の検討,” 信学技報, vol. 113, no. 223, MBE2013-42, NC2013-28, pp. 35-40, 新潟, 2013 年 9 月.

## Posters

### 国内の学会・シンポジウム (Domestic Conference, Symposium)

<b>査読なし (unrefereed), poster</b>

1. Tomoki Kazawa, <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Daisuke Miyamoto, Shigehiro Namiki, Hidetoshi Ikeno, Stephan Shuichi Haupt, Ikuko Nishikawa, Ryohei Kanzaki, “Constructing a multi-compartment parallelized simulation of a premotor area of the silkmoth brain,” 日本比較生理生化学会第 35 回大会, 兵庫, 2013 年 7 月.
2. Daisuke Miyamoto, Tomoki Kazawa, Stephan Shuichi Haupt, Shigehiro Namiki, Yohei Sato, Hidehito Sato, <u>Yusuke Mori</u>, Ryota Kobayashi, Hidetoshi Ikeno, Ikuko Nishikawa, Ryohei Kanzaki, “IOSSIM: the framework for constructing multi-compartment neuron models and large scale simulations,” 日本比較生理生化学会第 34 回大会, 神奈川, 2012 年 7 月.

<b>査読なし (unrefereed), poster, in Japanese</b>

1. 加沢 知毅, 宮本 大輔, <u>森 友亮</u>, ハウプト ステファン 周一, 並木 重宏, 神崎 亮平, 池野 英利, 五十嵐 吉輝, 山岸 嘉彦, 小野島 隆之, 小杉 展弘, 西川 郁子, “IOSSIM（昆虫全脳シミュレータ）の開発と応用,” 次世代生命体統合シミュレーションソフトウェアの研究開発（ライフ）公開シンポジウム, 東京, 2013 年 3 月.

## Other Activities

### Open Source Software commitment

#### [spacy-course](https://github.com/ines/spacy-course) Japanese translation project

- Participated in a project to enable users to use Japanese models in Japanese translated course.

#### Hugging Face Datasets Sprint 2020

- The detail of the sprint is shown in [HF newsletter](https://huggingface.curated.co/issues/5).
- As one of the 275+ participants, I joined the open-source community effort and create PRs of adding datasets.
- The datasets added in the sprint is released in Hugging Face Datasets v1.2.

<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="en" dir="ltr">Release alert: the 🤗datasets library v1.2 is available now!<br><br>With:<br>- 611 datasets you can download in one line of python<br>- 467 languages covered, 99 with at least 10 datasets<br>- efficient pre-processing to free you from memory constraints<br><br>Try it out at:<a href="https://t.co/A7rmjGSELy">https://t.co/A7rmjGSELy</a> <a href="https://t.co/c8TETfWfHr">pic.twitter.com/c8TETfWfHr</a></p>&mdash; Hugging Face (@huggingface) <a href="https://twitter.com/huggingface/status/1346398458303934464?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">January 5, 2021</a></blockquote> <script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>

### Presentation at Study Group

#### [第 41 回　コンピュータビジョン勉強会＠関東](https://kantocv.connpass.com/event/62340/)

<iframe src="//www.slideshare.net/slideshow/embed_code/key/u3AkvymrrDUl7E" width="595" height="485" frameborder="0" marginwidth="0" marginheight="0" scrolling="no" style="border:1px solid #CCC; border-width:1px; margin-bottom:5px; max-width: 100%;" allowfullscreen> </iframe> <div style="margin-bottom:5px"> <strong> <a href="//www.slideshare.net/moriemonmist/2017081941cvhierarchicalapproachimageparagraphs" title="20170819第41回CV勉強会＠関東_HierarchicalApproach_ImageParagraphs" target="_blank">20170819第41回CV勉強会＠関東_HierarchicalApproach_ImageParagraphs</a> </strong> from <strong><a href="https://www.slideshare.net/moriemonmist" target="_blank">Yusuke Mori</a></strong> </div>

I introduced "A Hierarchical Approach for Generating Descriptive Image Paragraphs" [Krause et al., CVPR 2017] at the 41st kantocv.

## Qualifications

### Information Science and Technology

- Passed Applied Information Technology Engineer Examination (AP) (2015-06)
- Passed Fundamental Information Technology Engineer Examination (FE) (2012-11)

### Language

- TOEIC L&R 915 (2018-09)

### Others

- 3rd grade Certified Specialist of Intellectual Property Management（administration） (2015-04)
